---
layout: post
title:  "Sidekiq: An introduction to background job processing"
author: Kalpit
categories: [ Ruby, Rails ]
image: assets/images/sidekiq.png
---

Processing millions and thousands of records is a time-consuming task that cannot be completed quickly. The user must wait for the process to complete, which can be a lengthy and inconvenient process if done in the foreground.

Sidekiq is a background job processing system for Ruby applications. It allows developers to asynchronously execute long-running or resource-intensive tasks in the background, freeing up the application to handle other requests in the meantime.

### First, let's explore how to integrate Sidekiq into our existing application:

To use Sidekiq, we first need to install its gem. We can do this by adding the following line to our `Gemfile`:

```ruby
gem 'sidekiq'
```

After this, run `bundle install`

### Add Sidekiq Worker:

With Sidekiq added to our project, the next step is to create a Sidekiq worker that can perform background jobs.

To create a Sidekiq worker, we should add it to the `app/workers` directory. As an example, let's create a `ButTimeWorker` that takes some data as input, sleeps for a specific time, and then prints some output as follows:

```ruby
# app/workers/buy_time_worker.rb

class BuyTimeWorker
  include Sidekiq::Worker	

  def perform(name, sec)
    p "Hey #{name} you are going to sleep for #{sec} seconds"
    sleep(sec)
    p "After a long nap"
  end
end
```

This sidekiq worker takes name and sec as arguments, prints the `name` after that sleeps for `sec` seconds, and prints `After a long nap`.

### Calling sidekiq worker:

Let's consider we have a team model as follows:

```ruby
# app/models/team.rb

# == Schema Information
#
# Table name: teams
#
#  id         :bigint           not null, primary key
#  name       :string
#  rating     :integer
#  created_at :datetime         not null
#  updated_at :datetime         not null
#
class Team < ApplicationRecord
end
```

Controller:

```ruby
# app/controllers/api/v1/teams_controller.rb

class Api::V1::TeamsController < ApplicationController
  def index
    teams = Team.all.select(:id, :name, :rating)
    render json: { data: teams }
  end

  def show
    team = Team.where(id: team_params[:id])
                .select(:id, :name, :rating)
    BuyTimeWorker.perform_async(team.first.name, team.first.rating)
    render json: { data: team }
  end

  private
  def team_params
    params.permit(:id)
  end
end
```
> It's important to note that we're calling our worker in the `show` action, and this call is made asynchronously. As a result, we can see the rendered team's data as JSON while the worker performs its operations in the background.

Routes:

```ruby
# config/routes.rb

Rails.application.routes.draw do
  namespace :api do
    namespace :v1 do
      resources :teams, only: [:index, :show]
    end
  end
end
```

To call our worker, we need to make a request to the following URL: `/api/v1/teams/:id`. As soon as this URL is hit, the `show` action is called, triggering the Sidekiq worker to begin processing in the background.

In order to see all these things in action, we need to start following things:

Rails server

Redis server

Sidekiq

### Output:

```ruby
2023-03-05T12:13:23.217Z pid=11935 tid=11t5jub class=BuyTimeWorker jid=94b8bc2d6afccd72ec101f64 INFO: start
"Hello world"
"Hey Ind you are going to sleep for 9 seconds"
"After long nap"
```

You’ll see output like this 👆🏼.

In summary, Sidekiq is an excellent choice for implementing background processing in Ruby on Rails applications. With its simple integration and powerful capabilities, Sidekiq can help improve the performance and responsiveness of your application. Give it a try and see how it can benefit your project! 🥂🍻
