---
layout: post
title:  "Generating CSV files in Rails"
author: Kalpit
categories: [ Ruby, Rails ]
image: assets/images/csv.png
---

CSV (Comma Separated Values) is a widely used file format to exchange data between different systems. In this blog post, we will learn how to generate CSV files in Rails. We will use the **`csv`** library that comes bundled with Ruby to generate the CSV file.

Step 1: Create a controller

Let's start by creating a new Rails controller. Open your terminal, navigate to your Rails application directory, and run the following command:

```ruby
rails generate controller Products
```

This will create a new controller called **`ProductsController`** and some basic files for the controller.

Step 2: Add a route

Now we need to add a route to our new controller. Open the **`config/routes.rb`** file and add the following route:

```ruby
get 'products/export_csv', to: 'products#export_csv'
```

This will create a new route that will be used to export the CSV data.

Step 3: Add an action to the controller

Next, we need to add an action to our controller that will generate the CSV file. Open the **`app/controllers/products_controller.rb`** file and add the following code:

```ruby
class ProductsController < ApplicationController
  def export_csv
    @products = Product.all

    respond_to do |format|
      format.csv { send_data @products.to_csv, filename: "products-#{Date.today}.csv" }
    end
  end
end
```

In this code, we are first fetching all the products from the database and then calling the **`to_csv`** method on the collection to generate the CSV file. We are then using the **`send_data`** method to send the generated CSV data as a file to the browser. The **`respond_to`** block will check the requested format and respond accordingly.

Step 4: Add a **`to_csv`** method to the model

Next, we need to define the **`to_csv`** method on the **`Product`** model. Open the **`app/models/product.rb`** file and add the following code:

```ruby
require 'csv'

class Product < ApplicationRecord
  def self.to_csv
    attributes = %w[id name description price created_at updated_at]

    CSV.generate(headers: true) do |csv|
      csv << attributes

      all.each do |product|
        csv << attributes.map { |attr| product.send(attr) }
      end
    end
  end
end
```

In this code, we are first requiring the **`csv`** library, and then defining the **`to_csv`** method on the **`Product`** model. In this method, we are defining the attributes we want to export to the CSV file. We then use the **`CSV.generate`** method to generate the CSV file. In this block, we first define the headers for the CSV file and then iterate over all the products and add each row to the CSV file.

Step 5: Add a link to the view

Finally, we need to add a link to the view that will trigger the export action. Open the **`app/views/products/index.html.erb`** file and add the following code:

```ruby
<%= link_to 'Export CSV', products_export_csv_path(format: :csv) %>
```

This will create a link on the **`products/index`** page that will export the CSV data when clicked.

That's it! Now you should be able to export CSV data from your Rails application.
